Last but not least,
we need to consider the performance of the Kafka broker itself.
The Kafka broker is the conduit through which data in our system flows.
First, disk usage should be monitored.
Kafka retains data, sometimes indefinitely.
As you add topics and increase the volume of data,
it's possible you may fill up the disks on your brokers.
If this happens, you will take the broker offline and potentially
cause data loss and downtime for your applications.
Next, network usage is a critical metric to measure.
In the first lesson we mentioned that Netflix handles billions of messages per day.
If Netflix didn't have thousands of nodes to handle their throughput,
it's possible they would actually saturate their network cards on the actual servers.
Again, this can make Kafka brokers periodically unavailable.
Election frequency is another important metric.
When leadership elections occur for topics,
consumption and production temporarily stops.
If these elections are happening frequently,
it can be hugely disruptive to your system.
Frequent elections are also an indicator that a broker is
unstable or the settings may be improperly configured.